Flora: Vearn Palace
has arrived...
It's almost time.
Gomez: Those fiends kept them
tied up like that all night?
They really are monsters.
Lady Amy [thought]:
Hyunckel...
Don't worry, my friends.
We're going to
get you out of there!
[chirp]
Get ready.
Vearn: The sun has reached
its highest point...
Shining so gloriously.
Now, everything is in place.
Mystvearn: It is noon.
All right, then.
What do you sense, Merle?
Do you think that's all of them?
Yes.
The Shadow Legion Commander
and his squadron of
Restless Armors.
There's thirty-six of them.
I can also sense...
a lot of pressure coming
from Vearn Palace, but...
that's everyone
who's on the ground.
Our troops can handle a
number of that size, but...
Mystvearn is going to
be the real challenge.
Mystvearn: I'm sure
you haven't forgotten
my offer, Hyunckel.
If you drink the Dark Aura from
this chalice and serve me...
I will let you go free.
Mystvearn:
What do you choose?
I'm not drinking anything
until you untie me.
Mystvearn: [chuckling]
Very well.
Mystvearn: But remember,
there's no turning back
once this touches your lips.
Your soul will belong
to me for the rest of time.
Don't do this!
It isn't worth it!
Hyunckel, no!
Crocodine... D-Do not
forget... what I told you...
Please...
[maddened roar]
[struggling grunts]
[howling]
Mystvearn: Foolish boy.
I know you.
I'm sure you thought
that you could trick me
by pretending to give in.
But unfortunately, my Dark Aura
is not so easily overcome.
And no matter what you
may have intended...
You now belong to me.
[roaring]
[menacing growl]
Something's not right.
What's happening to
Sir Hyunckel down there?
Whatever was in that
chalice is changing him...
Maybe some kind of potion?
It was Dark Aura.
What?
I see an evil presence
at work in Hyunckel's heart.
I'm sure of it. It must
be the enemy's Dark Aura.
He willingly opened
himself up to an evil force?
How could a Disciple of Avan...
do such a thing?!
Crocodine: I don't
understand...
Mystvearn: It feels
good, doesn't it?
I suspect if I commanded
you to take someone's head,
you would find it as easy as
plucking a flower from its stem.
Mystvearn: Just as you should.
You've finally returned
to where you belong.
He belongs with us!
And no matter what you say,
he wouldn't lose his
righteous heart so easily.
Mystvearn: Of course he would.
Your vision may be limited,
but I know you can
perceive a man's Aura.
Take a look for yourself.
What do you see?
Crocodine [thought]:
His Aura of Light...
I can barely feel it.
It's as though he's been
completely enveloped
in darkness...
Crocodine [thought]: It's so
powerful that before long,
all of the good in Hyunckel
will be extinguished.
Mystvearn: This
is the price he pays
for underestimating the
influence of my Dark Aura.
It was a grave error
to assume that his light
would be able to
overcome such a force.
With my training,
he will know better.
I told him many times:
There are some things in this
world that cannot be overcome...
and the power of
darkness is one of them.
Alas, my friend.
Your final gambit was
certainly a clever one...
But it seems that
clever wasn't enough.
Mystvearn: And now
your soul is mine.
But still, you seem sluggish.
The Dark Aura you drank
has already healed
your wounds. However...
I can sense that you've retained
a shred of your conscience...
and that will need
to be removed.
In order to complete
the transformation,
and become the warrior
you once were...
Take this and
execute Crocodine.
Mystvearn: Killing a former
ally should extinguish
your conscience for good.
Your Aura of Light
will never recover,
and then you will once again
become the Dark Swordsman.
Now... do it.
Hyunckel, no...
Chiu: No... Amy, you
can't go out there yet!
Lady Amy: But
Hyunckel needs us!
Gomez: We know that,
but it's not the right move.
If we charge in before Dai
and the others rescue them,
we'll give the game away.
And if we let him do this,
there won't be anyone
left to rescue.
She's right.
Crocodine [thought]:
What are my options?
Even if I break free
and can fight,
Hyunckel is my friend...
Wait!
Crocodine, if you really do
count me as a friend...
Then I need you to trust
me no matter what.
Crocodine [thought]:
If there's even a shred of
his conscience left, that
means he's still fighting...
It means there's a desperate
battle raging in his heart.
I have to... I have to trust
him and believe he can win.
Come on, Hyunckel.
You can't give up.
You have to resist
the Dark Aura!
Mystvearn: Kill him.
Stop hesitating. Do it now!
[struggling grunts]
You can beat this.
I believe in you.
And no matter
what you do to me,
I will keep on believing...
until the very end.
Hyunckel: [struggling grunts]
That's it! Keep going.
Fight and drive that
evil out of your heart.
Mystvearn: Don't listen
to this nonsense.
Do what you're told
and finish him.
Don't give in!
Mystvearn: I said do it!
[furious roar]
Mystvearn: W-What?!
Oh, no. Hyunckel!
Mystvearn: He... He's dead.
[shocked gasp]
Mystvearn:
Well, this is a pity.
If he had just accepted it,
he could have been the
Dark Army's greatest warrior.
The force of
the conflicting Auras
must have been
too much to endure.
I can't sense his life
energy at all - It's gone.
It just vanished!
And without him, we no
longer have the five
Disciples of Avan needed
to cast the Kaglimmer spell.
What are Dai and
the others waiting for?
I've stood by long enough.
Hey, what's your
problem? Let go of me!
You really don't get it, kid?
The reason they
haven't attacked yet...
is because they understand
what Hyunckel is trying to do.
What?
For a warrior
of his caliber...
Life itself is merely another
weapon for him to wield.
Mystvearn: How disappointing,
and all in vain, too.
But at least he'll
have a companion
for his journey
to the afterlife.
[resentful growl]
Crocodine [thought]:
I'm sorry, Hyunckel.
Mystvearn: [surprised gasp]
But how?!
That's impossible!
Hyunckel: "Impossible" feels
pretty good... Mystvearn.
As a matter of fact,
I expect if I decided to
take your head right now,
I'd find it...
As easy...
as plucking a flower
from its stem.
I don't believe it...
Both: Hyunckel's back!
Mystvearn:
It doesn't make sense.
I felt your life energy
disappear - there was no doubt.
How are you still alive?
Oh, it's actually very simple.
Hyunckel: You see,
there were two opposing Auras
battling inside of me.
And then... one of
them beat the other.
What you felt disappear?
Well, that was the Aura
that lost the fight.
Mystvearn: It can't be...
[roaring]
Crocodine: I knew it.
Mystvearn: Unbelievable.
How has your Aura of Light
grown so powerful?!
Hyunckel: You were right
about the Dark Aura-
that it was strong enough
to suppress other powers,
but there's another
factor in play.
By overwhelming me with
your concentrated Aura,
The light within me was
almost extinguished...
And as a result, the only
way for it to survive-
Was for it to grow
stronger than ever before.
It looked like
you were winning,
but the harder I
fought not to give in,
the more powerful it became...
Until... it was strong enough
to suppress your Darkness.
Mystvearn: Impressive. So that
was your intent all along...
Using my Dark
Aura as catalyst
to increase your own
power right under my nose.
Not that long ago,
you told me...
That abandoning my Dark Aura
had only made me weaker...
But, turns out-
All I needed to do
was learn how to
use these opposing
energies in harmony.
When I was evil,
I hated the power of light that
Avan had unearthed in me...
And when I was good,
all I wanted was to overcome
the darkness in my heart.
Over time, this tension boosted
the strength of both Auras.
So when you told me
to accept your darkness,
I knew I could use
it to fuel my light...
and give myself
a chance to shine
brighter than either
of us could imagine.
Mystvearn: This is absurd.
Even if what you're
saying is true,
the light
within you would never
measure up against
my Dark Aura...
And there's no way it could
possibly suppress it.
I'm sure you already
sense you're wrong.
By now, my Light has overwhelmed
the Darkness inside me.
A fate that you
will soon share as well.
Mystvearn: Silence!
[roaring]
[pained groan]
Crocodine: Defeating a
Restless Armor bare-handed?!
Incredible.
Brokeena: The true
power of the Aura.
All: [confused grunts]
Brokeena: He's overflowing
with so much of it,
his body has become
harder than steel.
I'd say he's achieved a power
beyond our wildest imaginations.
Wait, are you telling
me that you knew
this was his plan
the whole time?
Brokeena: Pretty much.
It was a very risky
gamble on his part,
but fortunately
he pulled it off...
And I'm sure they're all
very relieved that he did.
Huh? Uh, who do
you mean "they"?
Mystvearn: Why, you
little... How dare you...
You know my face
shall not be touched!
Honestly?
Sometimes you push things
a little too far.
You'd better make
this up to me.
Thought you were a goner.
How's this sound?
I'll take care
of these guys,
and then I'll get
you out of there.
Mystvearn:
You insolent fools!
That's enough games.
I'm going to tear the both of
you apart, right here and now.
"Both of us"? Mystvearn...
Take a breath.
That temper of yours
really dulls your senses
when you let it
get the better of you.
Mystvearn: Well, well...
Mystvearn: Dai.
Vearn: So...
the boy lives.
Killvearn: What did I
tell you, Your Majesty?
My cards are never wrong.
It's exactly as I predicted.
Vearn: I can sense
his spirit from here.
There's something
different about it;
as if he's an
entirely new being.
You've found your resolve.
All right, Dai!
Popp, Leona... Maam?
Where did you all come from?
[chuckling]
We tunneled in just like
you would have, Big Guy.
Well, I mean, we used my fire
magic instead, but still...
Let me get those for you.
[charging roar]
[relieved sigh]
Hyunckel: I'm surprised you
didn't jump the gun, Dai.
Why? I knew
what you were up to.
I could feel
the Aura of Light
growing stronger
inside of you,
so I told everybody
to hold their ground.
At first we weren't quite
sure how to get to you,
but we figured
an attack from
underground would be
the best option.
Makes sense.
Thank you.
Could not have done it
without your... belief in me.
Leona: Yeah,
it wasn't only him
who believed in you,
you know.
Just for the record.
Wait, you mean...
For what it's worth,
the rest of us thought
that we should've made
our move the second you
went all dark-and-screamy
and whatever...
But somehow, Maam just knew.
Hyunckel would
never accept it...
Not unless he knew he could
withstand the Dark Aura
You know what?
Let's just trust him.
Lucky guess.
True, but I was right.
Yes. I made a solemn vow.
I will never fight for
the forces of darkness again.
Speaking of fighting,
this one's not over.
Nova!
Did somebody say
fight? I'm in.
'Cause we all ran
out of patience.
[charging roars]
Here we go. Showtime.
Commandos? We charge!
[roaring]
[attacking grunts]
Good luck. We can handle
ourselves. Don't worry.
Wait, why are you five
leaving the fighting to them?
It's sorta complicated.
You missed a few things, pal.
Hyunckel, do you still
have your Insignia of Avan?
Sure. I always carry it.
King Vearn himself
could strike me down,
and I still
wouldn't let it go.
Leona: Okay,
hold it in your hand
and try to focus your will.
Focus on my will?
What do you mean?
Oh, it shouldn't
be difficult.
Just close your eyes
and try to think about
whatever it is
that motivates you.
The thing that keeps
you fighting. Easy, right?
[embarrassed gulp]
Popp [thought]:
Don't glow...
Wait - what am
I even saying?
Sure, if Hyunckel can't
get his Insignia to glow,
it might let me
off the hook...
But the spell would
be ruined too.
I'm just the worst, aren't I?
What's that? What power
is in these pendants?
It means the Insignia must be
responding to your fortitude.
Perfect. We're all set.
Five Disciples
and five Insignias...
Now we're ready...
to cast the Kaglimmer spell.
[attacking grunts]
[snarling]
Mystvearn: [furious roar]
You'll pay for this,
Hyunckel - and you, Dai.
The two of you have humiliated
me for the last time.
Vearn: Is something
wrong, Mystvearn?
Mystvearn: My Dark King...
Why are you so agitated?
With your power,
you could easily wipe out
the Disciples of Avan
and their meager army.
And it's not as though
their petty resistance
will gain them entry to
Vearn Palace, now, is it?
I suggest you relax.
Why not take your time
with these pests?
And show them the
true cost of defiance.
Mystvearn: My liege.
Forgive my impatience...
I shall obey your commands.
Please, accept my
humble offering...
The sight of these pathetic
insects writhing in agony...
And these Disciples destroyed
just like their master.
Dark Puppetry Aura
Decimation Field!
Lon Beruk: The Disciples
are a little...
busy at the moment.
But I have plenty
of time for you.
Lon Beruk: And if
you want to play...
I've got all the
best toys, Mystvearn.
Mystvearn: Y-You.
Narrator: As the five Disciples
of Avan gather at last,
Leona leads them
through the ritual
to perform the
Kaglimmer spell.
Meanwhile Lon Beruk faces off
against a vengeful Mystvearn,
and Crocodine joins the
others in the fight to defend
his friends from
the Dark Army's siege...
With so much riding on
the spell's success,
will Dai and the others
pull it off in time?
Find out on
the next episode of
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Five Colors of Light".